---
layout: post
title:  Troubleshooting a 3D printer error
category: All 
comments: true
description: How to fix a 3D printer with a broken temperature sensor.
---

There's a 3D printer (3Drag/K8200) in our lab, which is mostly used to fabricate plastic labware (like pipette holders).

A few weeks ago I set-up a print of a rather large model. I made the mistake of leaving the printer unattended for a couple hours. When I returned, the model had a become a black gnarly mess and the following message displayed on the screen:

```bash
Printer stopped due to errors. Fix the error and use M999 to restart.
(Temperature is reset. Set it after restarting)
```
Overcoming my initial surprise I proceeded to switch off the printer and clean up the mess. Then the troubleshooting started.

An inspection of the extruder revealed that two cables were disconnected, with residual solder remaining on the tips.  A voltmeter read 1.2 V for the cables, so the controller should not be the problem. The printer successfully switched on again, and all motors moved, but the error still displayed on the screen. Additionally, in the software, the temperature reading of the extruder read **763.0 &deg;C**. Following the cables back to the controller showed that they came from two pins labeled **TERM1**.

All the evidence pointed to a faulty thermistor, the problem being that there was no thermistor to be found. Instead, I found small plastic and ceramic pieces scattered on the bench under the printer: the remains of the thermistor that must have exploded (due to overheating?).

A new thermistor was soldered into place, the error disappeared and the temperature reading of the extruder returned to normal room temperature. And, the moment of truth…the printer worked!

However, I still don't know how it could be that the thermistor exploded. Perhaps it came slightly separated from the extruder, reading a lower than normal temperature, leading to its own overheating.